In this hands on Jenkins lecture, we are going to learn how you can run a shell script from your Jenkins
job.
All right, let's get started.
The shell script we are going to learn is under the scripts folder in my DevOps course repository,
and it has the script.
Say hello.
S.H. Let's understand what the script does.
The first line just flips the script for one second.
I just wanted to show that you can add delays and pause in the Jenkins job this way as well, and then
it's regular shell scripting language.
So this shell script is expecting to input parameters.
So if the number of input parameters is not equal to two, then I'm saying, hey, you should enter
the topic and target and then I'm exiting the shell script else if we got those two parameters, I am
assigning the first input parameter that we received to the variable topic underscore name and the second
input parameter assigning to target.
And I'm simply doing a echo line dollar topic, underscore name and get dollar target.
The Jenkins file for the script is this.
So this Jenkins file is accepting two parameters a string name, topic, underscore name and string
target.
And the topic name has the default value of DevOps and the target has the default value of dream job.
And the stages are pretty straightforward.
There is only one stage which is calling the shell script.
Before you can call the shell script, you have to run a mod command to give access to the Jenkins user
so that it can run the shell script.
Else you might get a permission error to run the shell script.
It's a shell command.
You have to specify the folder where the shell script is at, and then I'm calling say hello message
and then passing this to parameters.
And note that that this two parameter name does not need to match what you have in the shell script.
I mean, I'm keeping it.
Same for ease of understanding.
You can define the parameters with different names.
Also note that I commented out this clone repo stage because if you are using Jenkins console and then
pointing the Jenkins file to get repository, it automatically combs the whole repository.
But even if you put it, it doesn't matter.
It's not going to clone it again.
It's going to recognize that it already cloned it and it's going to skip it.
All right.
So now let's jump into Jenkins and create the Jenkins job.
So last thing I want to say is a note that the Jenkins file is in the root folder.
So Jenkins file underscore script and the shell script is inside the scripts folder.
If everything is under the root folder, a different folder, you can adjust the path accordingly.
All right, now let's jump into the Jenkins console and create our Jenkins job as well as Click New
Item, then give an m.
I gave the name run shell script zero one pipeline click.
Okay, scroll down.
All right, we want the pipeline script from SQM Select.
Get back to my repository code.
Copy that extra gypsy URL.
Pass the URL.
This is a private repository, so I have to give my credentials.
The main branch is main and under script path.
The name of the Jenkins file is Jenkins file.
Underscore script.
All right, click save.
All right, let's run.
Build now.
If you already watch the Parameterized Jenkins job lecture, you know there is a quirk the first time
the job doesn't get the parameter because it closed the Jenkins file, but at that point, the job already
started running.
So the first time it doesn't take the input parameter, hence the shell script error out saying Hey,
enter topic and target, so let's rerun this.
So if we go back to the project now, you see the option build with parameters.
So let's run this, build with parameters.
I'll keep the default values click build.
All right, let's check out the log for the call script click logs.
It says Learn DevOps, get dream job.
Let's rerun this again.
Build.
Let's put the topic name.
All right, I'm passing cloud as the topic name and target money.
Click Build.
All right, let's check out the logs.
Long cloud.
Get money.
All right, folks, this is how you run a shell script from your Jenkins file and your Jenkins job.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next lecture.